OK. To continue with acoustics in the blind, this
may or may not be a worthwhile kind of thing to do.
But we have not investigated it very much. And
unfortunately, it's the kind of thing, while I've
spent a modest amount of time on it and talked to
some of the people involved with the blind, I'm
afraid I've been somewhat of a cop out in trying to
carry it to any kind of a conclusion. This is one of
the difficulties one gets when you're in an
institution as small as Woods Hole that is
isolated so far from a city where a large number of
things are going on. Our acoustics groups aren't
big enough to really hire anybody for this game,
and it's a little difficult for me to see how to work
in this very much unless one goes into a a much
larger city or a place like Boston
where one can work with a much larger group of
people.
Now, I have just a few more questions to ask you, and
then that'll take care of the interview. First of
all, What's your impression of the present
environmentalist movement?
Is this running? It's running. Oh, it is running.
My first thought with regards to the
environmentalist movement is that the world as a
whole has been most fortunate that Rachel Carson,
efforts and work in the Silent Spring and so forth
occurred prior to the so-called energy crisis
initiated by OPEC. I'm afraid if it had been the
other way around, no one would have paid any
attention to the environmentalists.
Getting more specific, there's probably no
question but what environmental problems are
very real, that the people who are involved with
them go all the way from serious, thoughtful
people to the lunatic fringe.
Oceanography has probably been very fortunate in
having a geophysics earth scientists in general
have tended to be leaders in the environmental
field. I think oceanography can be very proud of
the work they did do. For example, much of the CO2
involved
was initiated by oceanographers. And in fact,
that was, I believe, an important part of the of the
Indian Ocean Expedition, which probably Roger
may well have talked about some of this much more
knowingly than I have. I am pretty well convinced
that the ocean is an enormous place. And if we use
common sense, we can do a great deal of
experimenting in the ocean. And I mean social
experimenting. We're not going to... wreck the
ocean overnight any more than the Spanish
explorers could wreck the Americas overnight.
They could play havoc in small areas. But it took
centuries to make any great impression on the
Americas.
One example of this was I had mentioned earlier in
the work with Crossroads. I think it was probably a
wonderful thing that the United States and
oceanographers became involved in those early
nuclear weapons tests. They're not the kinds of
things I would like to see go on indefinitely, but
so much was learned early in the game that helped
provide the perspective that is necessary to work
towards the final solution of the problem.
As far as oceanographers are concerned, We, as a
group, are probably too conservative. We have not
tried to make any more comprehensive. To my way of
thinking, we have not outlined comprehensive
enough research at a large enough scale to make as
big bites in the problem as we should.
example, if a serious 10-year program
encompassing ocean engineering and social
aspects of it as well as the more conventional,
purely scientific aspects of oceanography and
dumping and so forth were concerned, I think the
nation would be far better off and science would
profit a great deal. For example, we know There are
many good conjectures and so forth. We know very
little about the feasibility of putting waste
into very deep holes. We know very little about how
long, about the fate of waste in deep holes.
There has been Almost no work in dumping sewage,
for example, under the thermocline, where it gets
out of the surface areas for certainly decades.
There are clearly pros and cons to this. But
in a situation such as Hawaii, where they have such
an enormous amount of ocean around them, that the
beach is sloped so much. It would seem this is a kind
of an oceanographic experiment, a large scale
oceanographic experiment that should be done.
And then if it turns out to work out well, it could be
emulated other places. If it doesn't work out
well, it could. But these are some of the kinds of
things that I really believe we're wasting time.
Somehow or other, our leadership in the higher
level Washington community many of whom are
composed of individuals within our own
profession, I think are really rather sadly
lacking in gumption and foresight. I believe this
is one of the problems with financing in
oceanography, that in recent years
oceanographers have not been posing attacks on
some of these problems on the scale where we might
really learn something significant enough to
alter the way society goes. I believe the American
public and Congress and so forth somehow or other
directly or indirectly recognizes this. And they
don't want to have much to do with intermediary
size experiments that don't stand a very much
chance to come out with a very good clear yes or a
very clear no.
If you had to name one accomplishment in your
career as oceanographer, what would you name?
First, I would say, as we discussed last night,
that that is not so much a difficult question as an
indeterminate question.
I believe because there are completely different
kinds of accomplishments which don't come under
the same category.
In the sort of classical oceanographic public
sense, I suppose my principal interest has tended
to be to make the undersea and the bottom of the
ocean part of the real world. And take it a little
bit more out of the mythical, excuse me, not take it
out of the mythical class, but to the mythical and
social aspects of the literary aspects of the
ocean to be able to incorporate it more in the
analytical scientific category. After all, the
ocean is only three miles deep, and our reasons for
not being better acquainted with it are primarily
social rather than technical.
Anything of more lasting value, perhaps, I feel
anything that can be done to make the world more
stable is probably one of the most important
things that can happen, and I feel that my If any
major contribution was probably part of the being
involved in some useful way in the major
revolution that went on in undersea warfare and
underwater acoustics.
So I guess those are the two aspects I would
mention. You can cheat by mentioning two rather
than one. All right. Is there anything you'd like
to add to the tape?
I
would like to discuss that with you just a little
bit more. One of the things is perhaps take
advantage of your view of this thing and block out,
just mention a few of the principal kinds of events
that have happened that I have felt have been
significant to the field of oceanography.
Then look at the piece of paper in front of me under
sort of different categories.
We don't need to of what the Challenger expedition
of a century ago was important, as well as many
since.
What happened to the importance of the National
Academy of Sciences in getting things going in
oceanography? It has been spasmodic, but it has
been extremely important from the first
committee in the 20s. The second committees in the
40s was not particularly effective. But the
report they put out in the latter part of the 50s,
which was Oceanography 1960 to 1970, I think was a
landmark kind of report. Pulled oceanographers
together and pulled the nation together in
oceanography in an outstanding way.
One of the reasons it was so successful, of course,
was that Sputnik was the press agent. And that was
an enormous help. It opened up people's eyes. It
opened up people's coffers.
I've mentioned from time to time of the tremendous
importance of equipment. In my own case, I've
tended to concentrate quite a bit on the
equipment, not from the standpoint of bolts and
nuts, but from the standpoint that I believe
progress in our field is a subtle combination of
new ideas, new data, and new technology. And our
social system seems to be put together so that the
particularly in recent times, that new
techniques, people think of that as engineering
and not science. This, I think, is an unfortunate
decade or two of oceanography, which I hope we will
get over and get back to being more
problem-oriented and do whatever is necessary to
learn more about Mother Earth and use her for
better.
Trends to get global ships so that we could operate
over the surface of the Earth pretty much where we
wanted to is so terribly important. I note that
this morning's newspaper describes the first
visit of a surface ship to the North Pole. Three
cheers for the Russians and the crew of the Arctic
for their work. and I hope this is what should be the
first of more routine usage of the Arctic Ocean,
which after all is one of our oceans, and to date has
been much more an ocean of the poet than of the
oceanographer.
The general trends towards higher resolution
equipment which, in a simpler fashion, is merely
getting ourselves new glasses so that we can see
more of what the ocean is like, should continue on
indefinitely.
Stop.
Any more questions? Nope. What kinds of
questions?
people and marine policy.